---
layout: page
title: Science
bibliography: bibliography_science.bibtex
permalink: /science/
---

My scientific interest developed during my final internship preparing me for my upcoming diploma thesis. This internship was at the chair of Prof. Dr. Dieter Neher under the supervision of aspiring PhD candidat Patrick Pingel, who is now an established researcher at Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Polymer Research (IAP) in Potsdam. During my time at the soft matter chair of Prof. Neher, I learned to assemble electrical devices based on polymeric semiconducting layers and measured their charge transport properties by the means of impedance spectroscopy. The fascinating mechanism of transport of charges in organic semiconductors, which is ultimatly restricted by the spatial and energetic disorder of the ensemble of polymers, lead me wanting to understand it better. I got that oppptunity a little bit later at the - at that time - fairly new chair of Prof. Ralf Metzler at Potsdam University, who is an expert in anomalous diffusion. An important reason to why anomalous diffusion can be used to describe the charge transport in organic semiconductors, is that the crossover of the electric current dependency for short and long time scales can be explained [@PhysRevB.12.2455]. A consequence of the description by anomlaous diffusion is that it is important at point in time after the initial excitation of the charge carriers inside the semiconductor, we start measuring the current. This is because anomalous diffusion has an ageing effect on the initial current plateau [@Kruesemann2016]. The effect has also been seen in experiments [@PhysRevB.87.024203]. Still puzzling is, what is the physical reason for this effect to occur in organic semiconductors.

In my PhD I started with Brownian dynamics including hydrodynamic interaction to describe the motion of von Willebrand factor, a large protein common in blood, that initiates the coagulation process at the site of injury. The activation as well as the degradation of von Willebrand factor is directly related to conformational changes due to increased shear flow [@PhysRevLett.97.138101]. The shear flow regulation of hemostasis research unit FOR 1543 of the German Research Foundation studies the direct relation of diseases related to the efficiency of von Willebrand factor and the physical, chemical and biological properties of the protein.

# References
